Task 0: Simple Web Stack – Web Infrastructure Design

1. Domain Name Resolution (DNS)
When a user enters www.foobar.com into their browser, the Domain Name System (DNS) is queried to translate the domain name into an IP address.

The "www" part is a subdomain (or hostname).

The DNS record used is an A record, which maps www.foobar.com to the IP address 8.8.8.8.

2. Connecting to the Server
Once the DNS resolution is complete, the browser now knows the IP address of the server. It sends an HTTP request like this:

vbnet
Copy
Edit
GET / HTTP/1.1  
Host: www.foobar.com  
This request is transmitted over the internet using TCP/IP protocols.

Inside the Server (IP: 8.8.8.8)

What is a Server?
A server is a physical or virtual machine that provides services to other machines over a network. In this context, it hosts the website, handles requests, and stores data.

Main Components and Their Roles:

Nginx (Web Server):

Listens on ports 80 (HTTP) and 443 (HTTPS).

Accepts incoming connections from users.

Serves static content like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and images.

Forwards dynamic requests to the application server using reverse proxy.

Acts as the first point of contact for user requests.

Application Server:

Processes dynamic content.

Executes backend logic written in a language like PHP, Python (with Gunicorn), or Node.js.

Responds with generated HTML based on logic or database queries.

Application Files (Code Base):

Contains the backend logic, templates, routes, and functionality of the website.

Typically stored in a directory like /var/www/foobar.com.

MySQL (Database):

Stores persistent structured data like user accounts, product listings, posts, etc.

The application server communicates with it over localhost (usually on port 3306 or via a Unix socket).

Communication Protocol:

The entire interaction between the server and the client browser happens over the HTTP or HTTPS protocol, running on top of TCP/IP.

Problems with This Infrastructure

Single Point of Failure (SPOF):
If the single server crashes (due to hardware failure or system error), the entire website becomes unavailable.

Downtime During Maintenance:
Restarting the server or deploying new code often requires restarting Nginx or the application server, which leads to temporary downtime where users cannot access the site.

No Scalability:
One server can only handle a limited amount of traffic. If traffic increases significantly, the server may become slow or crash due to overload.
There is no mechanism for load balancing or horizontal scaling.

